I never graduated high school, so the path I'm taking in pursuit of a
university education is the one less traveled, to say the least. Since
deciding to take the California High School Proficiency Exam and forgo
earning a high school diploma, my life as a dropout turned community
college student has gone surprisingly smoothly; the process of coming
to make that decision, however, was one of the great challenges of my
life.

When people ask me why I chose this path, I usually respond that
depression made me too unenergetic to continue in school. This is a
half-truth. As a rule, severely depressed people cannot get out of bed
before sunrise on a Saturday morning in order to take standardized
tests. Though I doubt I would have left high school without my
comparatively mild depression, it only goes so far in explaining my
decision. The stress associated with high school was also a major
factor.

Stress, I can handle. The trouble was that most of this stress
resulted from coping with an endless stream of repetitive projects and
homework; two years of high school was enough to convince me that my
efforts were doing more to prove my ability to comply than to actually
educate me. My stress self-amplified when I knew it was being incurred
as a result of unbeneficial work, ultimately making the high school
environment intolerable.

This is not to say that I find learning boring or without
destination. On the contrary! It was precisely my passion for learning
that provided my final reason for leaving high school. During
sophomore year, calculus class was the high point of my
day. Completing that math class, the most advanced offered, deprived
me of the final carrot keeping me in school. Leaving let me take on a
full schedule of interesting college courses such as Differential
Equations and Experimental Psychophysiology, allowing me to continue
my formal mathematics education and explore new interests in depth,
with time to spare for number theory and self-taught
programming. Choosing to leave high school was challenging, but I am
better off for it.

